- [Instructor] Deploying a Docker image
on AWS Elastic Beanstalk can be easy
but it does require a few extra steps compared
to previous videos.
The best way to do this
is on a Linux instance using AWS EB CLI.
This is their command line interface
for deploying our Docker image
to the AWS Elastic Beanstalk.
Please remember that AWS EB CLI
is not the same as AWS CLI.
The AWS EB CLI presents some unique challenges, however,
when installed on macOS.
So to save headaches for everyone involved,
we'll be using a vagrant instance like we did
when we built the Linux RPM package.
This will also streamline our tutorial
for those using Windows as well.
If you are interested in running through the installation
of AWS EB CLI on your Windows or macOS machines,
please see the GitHub link on the screen.
Let's open our project code
to 03_04_begin/SpringBootProduction in IntelliJ.
Once the project code is open in IntelliJ,
we're going to right click on the root folder
called SpringBootProduction.
We'll click on New, and create a new file.
We're going to call this file docker-composer.yml.
And hit Enter.
This will assist us in setting up some
of the parameters that are necessary
when we use the AWS EB CLI.
Inside this new file,
we'll start by typing version: single quotes three,
which specifies the version that we'll be using.
We'll hit Enter
and then we'll type services
and under services,
we'll type spring-boot-prod-docker-app:
and hit Enter.
Next, we'll type image: spring-boot-docker-image.
Hit Enter again.
This will be followed by build:
new line, context: ./
Then we'll type dockerfile equals Dockerfile.
This is located, of course,
at the same level as our Docker Composer file.
So next, we'll hit Enter
and line this up with the build and type ports.
This is where we'll expose the ports
from the Spring Boot app to the Docker instance.
So we're going to type dash,
space, single quotes, 80:5000, single quotes.
Hit Enter.
And this should actually be on a new line.
Here we'll type environment, slash,
SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE equals dev.
We'll save that.
And finally, we're going to edit our Dockerfile
and at the end of this,
we'll type EXPOSE 5000.
The next thing we need to do
is open up our application.properties.
This is located under the resources.
We're going to comment out our port,
server.port and our management port.
So in the terminal window of IntelliJ,
we're going to open this up,
we're going to type cd .. to go up one level.
Now, what we're going to do is zip up this project
and we're going to copy it over to our vagrant instance.
So let's type zip -r ~/vagrant_amzn2,
the name of our zip file,
SpringBootProduction.zip,
space, the name of the directory
that we're desiring to zip.
And when this is finished, hit Enter.
Let's verify that the zip was created
in the vagrant directory.
Let's clear the screen.
Type ls -la ~/vagrant and Tab.
Hit Enter.
And we can see that our SpringBootProduction.zip is there.
Next, we're going to leave IntelliJ behind
and open a command prompt or terminal window.
Inside of this window,
we're going to cd into our vagrant instance
and hit Enter.
We'll type ls -la to see the files.
If you remember, when we created the RPM,
we used this vagrant instance,
which was a gbailey/amzn2.
This vagrant instance uses an Amazon Linux distro,
which helps us to stay as close as possible
to the dependencies for the AWS EB CLI
that is to be next installed.
Let's start this instance
by typing vagrant up.
And with the instance started,
let's copy the project,
which is zipped and staged in the current directory.
We'll do this using the vagrant scp command.
Type vagrant scp SpringBootProduction.zip,
space, SpringBootProduction.zip and hit Enter.
With this done, let's SSH into our instance,
typing vagrant ssh and hit Enter.
Okay, let's take a quick look around.
Type ls -la.
We can see the previous RPM folder structures.
We also see our SpringBootProduction.zip.
Let's go ahead and unzip our Spring Boot project.
Followed by another ls -la.
We see our project.
Now we're going to go ahead and update yum again.
We'll type sudo yum update -y and hit Enter.
This may take a few minutes or it may not.
It looks like I made a mistake.
Let's type this again.
Sudo yum update -y.
Goes to show, even your instructor makes mistakes.
Hit Enter.
Now, this may take a while
and it may not.
It all depends on how many new RPMs are available.
It looks like we're in good luck.
Next, AWS EB CLI has some direct dependencies
that need to be installed.
So we're going to do that next.
Let's first clear the screen.
And we'll type sudo yum install -y zlib-devel
space openssl-devl
space ncurses-devel
space libffi-devel
space sqlite-devel.x86_64
space readline-devel.x86_64
space bzip2-devel.x86_64
space unzip space git.
And hit Enter.
Now, I already see one file that I mistyped.
As soon as this is done,
we'll go back and fix that
and I'll show you which one it was.
If we scroll up in the command terminal window,
you'll notice it says no package for openssl-devl.
This is because I should have typed D-E-V-E-L.
Let's fix that real quick.
Sudo yum install -y openssl-devel
and hit Enter.
Okay, we have so far set up packages needed
to install and run AWS CLI.
And it's time to do that.
Again, let's clear the screen.
We're going to type here git clone
https://github.com/aws/aws-elastic-beanstalk-cli-setup.git.
Hit Enter.
This will pull from the GitHub repository
the necessary AWS EB CLI setup scripts.
Now, once it's complete,
let's type ls -la
and we can see the AWS CLI project script's directory.
The final step is to run the script
and we'll do this by typing ./aws,
tab over to the end,
scripts/bundled_installer and hit Enter.
If by any chance while running this script
and you run into errors,
you might need to install the libffi-devel package
and then, of course, rerun this EB CLI install script again.
Now, this will take quite a while.
And that did take quite a long time
but please, don't be discouraged
by the long downloads and installation.
Once the AWS EB CLI's installed,
first, you shouldn't have to do this again
unless you accidentally delete this vagrant instance.
And second, the process following deploying Docker images
will become pretty much a route process.
Once this script is done,
the AWS folks have provided
some user-friendly echo statements
to update the Bash profile
and .zshrc files.
Let's copy these one at a time
and paste them back in.
The first one, now the second.
We'll go on to the third.
And finally, the fourth one.
Let's clear the screen.
And we're going to type eb --version.
And we can see that we're using EB CLI 3.20.2.
Okay, like I said, that was a lot of work
but now we're ready to use the AWS EB CLI
to deploy our Docker images.